## Week Two - Module 2 Recap

Fork this respository. Answer the questions to the best of your ability. Try to answer them with limited amount of external research. These questions cover the majority of what we've learned this week (which is a TON - YOU are a web developer!!!). 

Note: When you're done, submit a PR.

1. At a high level, what is ActiveRecord? What does it do/allow you to do?

-- It's a database management interface which allows you to categorize and organize data relationships.

2. Assume you have the following model:

```ruby
class Team << ActiveRecord::Base
end
```

What are some methods you can call on `Team`? If these methods aren't defined in the class, how do you have access to them?

--Team.all, Team.find(#), Team.find_by(param).  These methods are inherited through the ActiveRecord parent class.

3. Assume that in your database, a team has the following attributes: "id", "name", owner_id". How would you find the name of a team with an id of 4? Assuming your class only included the code from question 2, how could you find the owner of the same team?

--Team.find(4)
--Owner.where(team_id: 4)

4. Assume that you added a line to your `Team` class as follows:

```ruby
class Team << ActiveRecord::Base
  belongs_to :owner
end
```

Now how would you find the owner of the team with an id of 4?

--Team.find(4).owner

5. In a database that's holding students and teachers, what will be the relationship between students and teachers? Draw the schema diagram.

-- students have many teachers, and teachers have many students.  They are joined by a join table.

6. Define foreign key, primary key, and schema.

-- foreign_key - an identifier used by a child class as a basis of a data relationship.
-- primary_key - an identifier used by a parent class to identify a unique column.
-- schema - the blueprint of all your data relationships and attributes which is generated by compiling all of your separate migration files.

7. Describe the relationship between a foreign key on one table and a primary key on another table.

-- the foreign key for one table will point to an individual column on another table

8. What are the parts of an HTTP response?

-- Status line, headers, and body.


### Optional Questions

1. Name your five favorite ActiveRecord methods (i.e. methods your models inherit from ActiveRecord) and describe what they do.

-- where (returns an array of all elements matching your specified parameter
-- find_by (returns a single element matching your specified parameter.
-- order (structures your results in ascending or descending order by the specified parameter.

2. Name your three favorite ActiveRecord rake tasks and describe what they do.
3. What two columns does `t.timestamps null: false` create in our database?

-- "created_at" and "updated_at"

4. In a database that's holding schools and teachers, what will be the relationship between schools and teachers?

-a school has many teachers, a teacher belongs to a school.

5. In the same database, what will you need to do to create this relationship (draw a schema diagram)?
6. Give an example of when you might want to store information besides ids on a join table.

7. Describe and diagram the relationship between patients and doctors.

-- has many and has many

8. Describe and diagram the relationship between museums and original_paintings.
9. What could you see in your code that would make you think you might want to create a partial?

-- repetative forms
